Previously...
on Stargate SG-1...
I'm not just interested in outer space.
I'm from outer space.
Four excellent heroes
in an extraordinary new sci-fi series,
starring Nick Marlowe as the wry Colonel Danning.
As a matter of fact,
it does say "Colonel" on my uniform.
Wormhole Extreme!
It's what I do.
He sold the idea to the studio.
He obviously got the whole thing from
his knowledge of the Stargate Program.
If the Air Force didn't want it to happen,
they wouldn't have let it go this far.
Come on out.
We are the Furlings.
We thought we'd never get to meet you.
We led them straight here.
Sam!
I thought I could make it work.
The thermodynamic loop
is feeding back into the planet's core.
Well, that never happened.
Well, you've got to open big,
catch people's attention, make them think
the whole thing is going to be jam-packed.
I love jam!
Oh, I get it. It's yet another playful twist
on words in your "Earth" language.
It makes us look stupid.
You realize it's not actually us.
Okay, okay, it makes the characters look stupid.
I mean, do you really think the best way
to introduce the heroes of the story
is to show them causing a massive catastrophe?
That's... realistic.
I don't care.
Come on. It would be fun.
You know, you say that about everything.
Come to think of it, why am I doing this?
To make sure that the Air Force
is being properly represented,
and because General O'Neill
has requested you specifically.
Of course he did.
Jackson, how often do we get to give notes
on a big Hollywood feature script?
I believe this is intended to be a television movie.
A fictionalized, albeit slightly ridiculous version
of Stargate Command is an excellent cover
for the real thing in the event of a security leak.
Plausible deniability.
I'm sorry, Sir, did you say "slightly" ridiculous?
You're doing this.
You have no choice.
Just give the man five minutes.
I'll get you out of this when the time comes.
I've been looking through this,
and there doesn't seem to be any mention of...
a sexy female alien...
Anywhere.
I'm not even in this!
You know, the really unbelievable part
is that anyone would consider spending
millions of dollars on this thing.
I mean, seriously, all these writers,
and they couldn't come up with anything better?
I don't know, I've been watching a lot of
television lately, and apart from one glaring omission,
it doesn't seem to be that bad.
Maybe... we can make it better.
No, I'm with Sam on this one. I mean, who...
who makes a movie out of a series
that only lasted three episodes?
It allegedly performed well on DVD.
No, I'm not using any shots from the series.
It's a movie, not a clip show.
The budget is the budget.
They are a bunch of pencil-pushing,
bean-counting idiots.
You tell them if they don't like it,
I'm going to take it somewhere else.
You know not to say that last part, right?
Yeah, movie, not clip show, is fine.
Yeah, I've got to go.
Yeah.
Cell coverage is just terrible in here.
How's it going? You done?
Well, it...
certainly seems to be packed full of jam.
I knew I should have given you my first draft.
The producer brought in the other writers.
I thought you were the producer.
Yeah, the real one.
Look, just be honest.
I trust you guys. That's why I'm here.
Just tell me what you think.
Come on, you must have some ideas.
Don't be afraid. Just pitch them out.
We call it "spinning"!
Don't worry. No one's going to judge you.
Okay, for starters,
I think you need a strong opening title sequence.
Are you serious?
No one does that anymore.
You just throw up the title and get on with it.
Transcript by Tara Pathirana / sadgeezer.com
Subtitles by SG-66 - www.seriestele.net
Season 10
200th Episode
Walter! Dial 447!
The only way to stop this is
to get the device back to the planet.
Look, no offense, but...
Zombies have been done to death.
No... pun intended.
Besides, this is science-fiction, not horror.
Did I mention the Tel'Chak device?
'Cause that's what turned them into zombies.
Oh, sorry.
Go for Marty.
Oh, hey, Charlie. What's up?
It's the studio.
What kind of problem?
Just out of curiosity, what was the rest of the team
doing while your character was fighting the zombies?
Son of a bitch!
Studio executives...?
What? Oh, no, Charlie...
He's a great guy.
He's the only one I trust.
So, what's the problem, then?
Our lead backed out.
How am I supposed to tell a story
without my lead character?
Easy. You just bring in a character to replace him.
What?
You guys have to help me.
I mean, how can I keep the main character in the story
without actually having the actor who plays him?
Well, you could have the other characters
refer to him all the time,
maybe get him on the phone once in a while.
Oh, yeah, right. I mean something cool, like...
Face-switching or... body-swapping?
As if anyone would believe that.
Come on, you guys must have some
real-life experiences I can draw on.
Oh, well, there was that time
that Colonel O'Neill was invisible.
So, essentially what I think happened
is that you were bombarded by the particle field
being emanated by the cloaking generator.
See, you were in the engine room standing right
next to it when the device was turned on.
That would account for the minor traces
of radiation we've been picking up from you. But...
the good news is
I think I've found a way to reverse the process.
We have to go back to the mothership
and get the cloaking generator.
Sam, who are you talking to?
Oh, Colonel O'Neill. I was just explaining to him
how we're going to make him visible again.
No, you're not.
Jack's in...
Hammond's office.
I can't believe he did that to me again.
Yeah.
You know, getting that
cloaking generator off that mothership that's gonna be
the least of our problems. Now, getting Jack to help...
that's going to be the hard part.
- Oh, don't tell me...
- Oh, yes.
He likes being invisible.
And so, by translating this tablet,
we should be able to determine
the most important thing in the universe.
Does everyone just want to poke around,
see if you can find him?
Sir...
are you there?
Nope.
You cannot remain this way, O'Neill.
Why not?
It gives us an advantage over the Goa'uld.
I can sneak around all I want totally undetected.
I...
give us the element of surprise.
The bottom line is
I can do more for this planet,
invisible than I ever could
as my own sweet salient self.
I assume I am staring at you stoically.
- Not buying it...?
- No.
You are most transparent, O'Neill.
Oh, I get it.
Good one.
I can see right through you.
Don't push it.
Hello?
Hand signals.
I'm waving you over.
Okay, I've made the necessary adjustments.
All I have to do now is initiate the sequence.
Okay.
Let's do it.
Oh, yeah.
This is better.
It might feel like kind of a cheat.
Maybe it's best just not to mention the guy at all.
Yeah... besides, invisibility can be very powerful.
You might not want to open that can of worms.
You don't want your heroes to become too powerful.
Well, you could always invent
some negative side-effects.
That's how we talked
Colonel O'Neill into becoming visible again.
Okay, that's it.
SG-1, you are cleared to leave.
Thank you.
They can't leave!
They haven't finished reading my script!
That's funny,
I thought it said "General" on my uniform.
- We owe you one, Sir.
- You mean another one.
What are you talking about?
I thought you said it was gonna be fun.
Not after his zombie idea got shot down.
So, where are you guys all off to?
Some place pretty important...?
It's just a recon mission, isn't it?
Just a recon mission? This is no simple recon mission.
This is no less than my 200th trip through the Gate.
Really?
- You're counting?
- You bet.
I have been reflecting while changing into our gear...
I believe this is far from your 200th mission,
Colonel Mitchell.
I didn't say 200th mission.
I said 200th trip through the Gate. That's counting...
off-world Gates, back and forth,
pretty much any time I crossed the event horizon.
Yeah...
this is gonna be huge...
the big 2-0-0.
Fix it.
Quickly.
I'm on it.
Indeed.
We've got to go! We've got 10 seconds
before the time dilation field is activated.
If we don't make it through the Gate,
we'll be stuck here forever!
Okay, this could be a problem.
That was close...?
Oh yeah.
Are you serious?
What?
How did we escape?
They.
Fine, they. They, they, they.
How did they escape?
Isn't it obvious?
Even if the valley wasn't filled with Jaffa,
we could never have made it
to the Gate and dialed out in under...
10 seconds.
Good.
See, that's why we're here.
So, what do you think?
30 seconds?
May... maybe not such a round number.
How about...
Thirty eight?
What difference does it make?
I mean, it's not like you're gonna have
an actual ticking clock on the screen.
That's brilliant!
That's ridiculous.
Trust me.
Jeopardy plus ticking clock is box office.
It's the e = mc2 of the entertainment world.
Ask any executive.
Except I think
you've replaced jeopardy with certain death.
Oh, come on,
you guys have escaped
situations more dire than this before.
He has a point.
- So show the actual escape.
- Oh, no, no, no.
You can't give away too much too early.
It'll step on the ending.
Maybe if my character doesn't say,
"this is a problem."
He could say something like,
- "this should be easy."
- How many times do I have to tell you?
It's not you.
Colonel Danning...
is based on Colonel O'Neill.
Please tell me you have the Gate working again.
We're running another diagnostic,
but right now, we're stumped.
The power's getting through to the capacitors,
but for some reason, the charge isn't holding.
That's causing the control crystal
to send feedback into the interface
and reset the programming code
of the base computer's dialing protocol.
That was awesome.
Say that again.
No.
Everybody, take five.
I've got to get that down before I forget it.
The power getting to the flux capacitor, but
feedback is not feeding back into the feedback face.
This is gold!
Hey.
Forget about the techno-talk.
No one's really interested in it.
- You're an alien, right?
- Exactly,
and I know just what this movie needs.
So how would you know what sci-fi fans
from Earth would be interested in?
Aren't you also an alien?
Yeah, but I've been here quite a while.
Right. Look,
I think I know a good story when I hear one.
Don't you want this movie to appeal
to a broad range of people?
From Earth.
I have all kinds of fabulous adventures,
none of which have been classified by the Air Force.
Okay, shoot. Give me your best one.
Right.
I was in a stolen cargo ship on my way home
when a solar flare from a nearby star wreaked havoc
with my navigation system, and I was forced
to crash-land on the nearest planet.
In a bizarre twist of fate,
I crashed right on top of
the Goa'uld who ruled that planet,
which was fortunate because my ship was too badly
damaged to repair, and I needed help.
The local villagers were very grateful.
They introduced me to a lovely fair-haired Tok'ra
who had been hiding out on the planet.
She told me the legend of a powerful ascended being
who supposedly lived in some distant,
- far-off mountains through a treacherous forest.
- Look, I don't have all day.
- Cut to the chase.
- All right,
I met up with a number of my friends along the way,
and after a dangerous and eventful journey,
we finally come face to face with the ascended being.
What can I do for you?
Well, at first I thought I just wanted to go home but
now I've decided I'd quite like
to be a part of something...
a regular part, if you catch my drift.
Oh, and... these guys have their own issues. Boys?
That's the Wizard of Oz.
You've seen that one?
Yeah.
Oh, that's my phone.
Martin Lloyd.
I didn't hear it ring.
It's on... vibrate.
Yes, go ahead.
I can sing.
So how's it going?
Not well.
Samantha, 200 is waiting.
Right now, I'm just hoping we haven't done
something to permanently damage the Gate.
How can something work perfectly fine for 10 years,
then all of a sudden it doesn't work anymore?
I don't know.
Okay, try it now.
We're getting some strange
power readings here, Colonel.
Shut it down.
It's not responding.
The Gate's drawing massive amounts of energy
into its capacitors.
Close the blast door and the iris.
I can't shut it down.
Siler, manually cut the power!
Why does this always happen to me?
Sir, we have to evacuate the base!
This is General Landry.
I'm declaring a code red emergency.
All personnel, evacuate the base immediately.
Sir, the capacitors are overloading.
We have to get out of here now.
Hurry.
And that is the end of act two.
The mountain blows up?
No possible hope for survival.
Cool...?
I just wrote it,
based on what's going on with the Gate.
I love it when art imitates life.
Hang on...
we're alive in the next scene.
Oh, I just haven't fixed that part yet.
I'm thinking I can back-sell it and say
you were beamed out at the last second.
Beamed out?
Sure. Why not?
Is that not too convenient?
Not if you hang a lantern on it.
What's that?
It's a writer's term.
Another character points out how convenient it is.
Dr. Levant can say,
"Wow, that was great timing."
That way, the audience knows
I intended for it to be convenient, and we move on.
Really.
Okay, where were we?
Scene 24.
Oh, great,
one of my favorite scenes.
Go ahead.
Interior, bridge.
The crew mans their stations...
I'm picking up a strange energy anomaly, Colonel.
It appears the singularity is about to explode.
Weapons are at maximum.
Dammit, Captain! Solar flare.
We've got a shock wave heading straight for us.
Can you reverse the... polarity?
I'll do my best.
Engine room...
warp speed!
Take us out of here...
now.
I'm giving it all I've got, Captain,
but you're expecting a bloody miracle.
Hang on, hang on.
What?
Okay, one...
that's Star Trek. And two...
it's ridiculous.
What's wrong with it?
"The singularity is about to explode?"
Yes.
Everything about that statement is wrong.
How exactly is having weapons at maximum
going to help the situation?
The audience isn't gonna know the difference.
They love "weapons at maximum."
Never underestimate your audience.
They're generally sensitive, intelligent people
who respond positively to quality entertainment.
I do not understand why everything in this script
must inevitably explode.
Look, you guys may all know how things really work
out there in the galaxy, but I know the film business.
Explosions make great trailers.
Simple fact.
More explosions,
better trailer.
Better trailer,
more viewers.
Yeah, go for Marty.
Oh, hey, Nora.
What?
That's ridiculous.
Tell them to stop panicking.
We're gonna sign him.
Don't worry.
I already put in a call in to his manager.
We'll get back to you.
Yeah. Bye.
So... trouble with Nora.
No. Nora...
she's great.
But since Nick Marlowe is holding out,
one of the new junior executives
at the network has suggested
we re-cast the whole movie with
younger, edgier versions of the team.
Can you imagine that?
Yo, dawg,
what'd you do that for?
Dude, that hot chick was
so totally a Goa'uld!
Duh. I was still gonna tap that.
You don't appreciate me, do you?
I think you're so totally awesome.
That's what I'm talkin' about.
Yo, wonderbread,
you got that address figured out yet?
Chill, T.
I'm, like,
translating as fast as I can.
I'm so sick of being treated like some
sort of object to be worshiped.
I'm a real person with real feelings.
You know,
I don't think Mitchell likes me anymore.
I'm pregnant.
No.
Nope.
I need a latte.
How about this one?
We were in a cloaked cargo ship on a simple,
three-hour reconnaissance mission...
Gilligan's island, right?
You got that from
"three-hour reconnaissance mission"?
Piece of advice...
if you're gonna rip something off,
think of something a little more obscure.
Oh, okay.
Call me fahrbot,
but they gonna have our mivonks
on a platter if we don't...
starburst the draz out of here.
The cluster's been damaged,
we're not going anywhere.
Oh, dren.
Hezmana!
Frell!
Son of a hazmot!
Yotz!
Okay, you got me.
I have no idea what that is.
Oh, for crying out loud,
what now?
Oh, give me a break!
I just a got a text message from the studio.
The foreign distributor went bankrupt.
They're slashing my budget.
In a text message?
This totally screws up the end of act three.
What happens at the end of act three?
With these cuts, not much.
Act three just ends.
What's so bad about this?
Any idea when we'll be able to go?
Sorry.
We're trying a full reset of the system, Sir.
If you want this to be more accurate,
why don't you just give him your mission files?
They're classified.
So? Didn't you say that no one on your planet
would believe this was all real anyway?
Even still, do you know how many
mission files there are?
1,263,
hopefully 64 by the end of the day.
Actually, it's 1,264 already.
No, it's 63, pretty sure.
I've read all the files recently.
Actually, you haven't read 30185.
30185?
What's that?
We can't tell you.
What do you mean you can't tell me?
I have the highest security clearance
known to mankind. What...
what is 30185?
We were sworn to secrecy.
Well, why even mention it to me if you're
not going to tell me what it is?
Sorry.
- Can you tell me?
- Oh, yeah, we can tell you.
It has to do with the time that
the Gate sent us back to 1969.
Well, that can't have anything to do with me.
I wasn't born till a year later.
Actually, it was nine months
before he was born.
What?
You have to remember it was the '60s.
Come on...
you have to have known that Jack's
always taken an interest in your life.
Jack?
O'Neill?
Indeed.
Do you remember when you were chosen for the 302
program even though you didn't think you should get in?
How about when you were chosen for SG-1?
Wait, are you saying that...
- Jack O'Neill is...
- My daddy?
All starting to make sense now, isn't it?
Oh, I'm being punk'd, aren't I?
We honestly can't tell you about 30185.
I can't believe it!
The whole cast heard Marlowe is holding out for
more money, and now they're all joining in.
Where do they think it comes from?
How am I supposed to do a movie
without any actors?
Carter...
correct me if I'm wrong on this,but is it not a fact
of parallel dimension physics that each of us exists
somewhere in some universe in whatever way,
shape, or form we can imagine?
Any way, shape, or form we can imagine.
We've seen it for ourselves.
There you go.
Use your imagination.
All right, people.
We created this multi-billion dollar facility under
cheyenne mountain so that we can use this thing...
anyone know how?
Sir, we thought you knew.
I do know this...
we need to put together a team,
starting with the most beautiful,
battle-ready scientific genius I know...
- Captain Doctor Samantha Carter.
- Reporting for duty, Sir.
What can you tell us, Captain?
Well, at first glance, I suspect the device creates
a stable wormhole between superconducting rings
that have been placed in fixed positions elsewhere...
... converts matter into energy at the event horizon...
once the initial vortex has subsided, of course...
and just because my sex organs are on the inside
instead of the outside doesn't
mean that I can't handle...
provided, of course, that sufficient energy
has been channeled to the device
and that the correct coordinates have been calculated.
Okay, get to it.
Next, we need a bookworm adventurer who
can say "brains" and "guts" in 27 languages...
Dr. Daniel Jackson.
Why have I been brought here? This is not...
What is that?
The reason you're here, Doctor.
This big ring...
was discovered in the sands of Egypt near giza.
Then I was right.
The pyramids really were landing sites for
interplanetary starships that enslaved primitive
human populations by posing as their gods.
Well...
we found the ring in the sand.
These symbols, they look familiar.
They're like constellations. Don't you see?
Here.
If each symbol represents a specific point in space,
then six of them would create a sort of box.
The intersection point between those six points
would indicate a destination.
Maybe, just maybe,
the seventh marks the starting point.
Is there a monitor that shows these symbols in detail?
Over here, Dr. Jackson.
Wait.
This one seems different.
You found the ring in egypt...
the pyramid represents Earth.
This symbol has to be the point of origin.
It was under our noses the whole time.
I feel so stupid.
And now what this team needs is a leader,
someone who'll laugh in the face of his enemy,
even when it's inappropriate.
Colonel Jack O'Neill.
I thought I told you I retired.
I thought you said you were tired.
Well, as a matter of fact, I am a little tired.
There's no time for that now.
You have a mission to lead.
Right!
Sergeant?
Make it spin.
Spin?
Sir, it doesn't spin.
What?
It has to spin. It's round.
Spinning is so much cooler than not spinning.
I'm the General.
I want it to spin.
Now!
Yes, Sir.
Hey, look at that.
Chevron one is lit up.
I wonder what we're going to find on the other side.
Whatever it is, I'll bet it's amazing.
Well, don't get too excited.
It's just a simple recon.
Aren't you the least bit
curious about what's out there?
Well, I'm just hoping
we find some new meat for the team,
preferably something bald,
mysterious...
you know the warrior type with lots of,
you know, muscles...
Sir, the odds against any alien lifeforms
we encounter looking remotely human are
astronomical.
Yeah, well...
we'll see.
Chevron seven...
also lit up.
Holy...
Colonel O'Neill, you have a go.
Godspeed.
Easy for him to say.
Okay,
we're all going to do this together on three, right?
Okay?
Okay.
One...
two...
three!
Dear god in heaven.
I feel so stupid.
Yeah, that'll work.
A whole movie made with puppets.
- Hey, I'm just saying...
- Maybe we can have puppet O'Neill
jump over a puppet shark
on a one-third scale motorcycle.
I don't get it.
Look, you don't know the business like I do.
I don't have any money,
so I have to give the actors something else.